---
title: "Landsat-Based Two Decades Land Cover Change in Dongting Lake Region"
collection: publications
permalink: /publications/FBE_17_01242
venue: "Fresenius Environmental Bulletin"
excerpt: 'This paper is about the number 2. The number 3 is left for future work.'
date: 2018-03-15
citation: '<b>Xike Zhang</b>, Qiuwen Zhang, Gui Zhang Zifan Gui and Zhiping Nie. <i>Fresenius Environmental Bulletin</i>. 2018, 27(3), 1563-1573.'
---
[[PDF]](<!--http://kokocheung.github.io/mysite/files/FBE_17_01242.pdf-->)

## Abstract
Land cover in Dongting Lake region has been faced high variations during recent decades. Therefore, there has a strong need to investigate and under stand the land cover changes in Dongting Lake region between land cover types. In this study, support vector machine (SVM) classification method was employed to detect changes in land cover dynamic in Dongting Lake region using Landsat images for the
year 1995, 2006 and 2015. Land cover information was classified to five categories: waterbody, wetland, built-up, cropland and forestland. Quantitative analysis, change detection matrix and land cover dynamic degree were utilized for investigating and assessing the land cover changes in Dongting Lake region. The overall accuracy (OA) and kappa coefficient of the land cover classification results were over 96% and 0.9, respectively. The results indicated that in 1995 about 11.32% of study area was covered by waterbody together with 13.31% of wetland. Nearly 50% of the area was covered by cropland and remaining 2.59% was covered by built-up. During the period 1995-2015, the change rate of the waterbody was evaluated at -0.29%, at -0.67% for the wetland and at -2.47% for the built-up. On the contrary, the forestland and cropland increased by 0.72% and 0.03%, respectively. In addition, the results of this study can provide scientific information for government to formulate policy for sustainable land use management in Dongting Lake region.
