---
title: "Surface Water Are Variations Monitoring and Flood Hazards Using Landsat Image Data in Dongting Lake from 1988 to 2016"
collection: publications
permalink: /publications/FEB_18_00628
venue: "Fresenius Environmental Bulletin"
excerpt: 'This paper is about the number 2. The number 3 is left for future work.'
date: 2010-10-01
citation: '<b>Xike Zhang</b>, Qiuwen Zhang, Gui Zhang Zifan Gui and Zhiping Nie. <i>Fresenius Environmental Bulletin</i>. 2018, 27(9), 6168-6178.'
---
[[PDF]](<!--https://kokocheung.github.io/mysite/files/FEB_18_00628.pdf-->)

## Abstract
Dongting Lake is the second largest freshwater lake in China, with rapid seasonal surface water area fluctuations in the middle reach of the Yangtze River and downstream from the Three Gorges Reservoir (TGR). The marked variation of the lake’s surface water area is considered to have been affected by the TGR over the past decades. In this study, Landsat TM/ETM+/OLI time-series imagery data were em
ployed to estimate the wet season total surface water area variation in South Dongting Lake and East Dongting Lake from 1988 to 2016. The surface water area was extracted from Landsat data using Modified Normalized Difference Water Index (MNDWI).
The results indicated that the surface water area variation was accordant with the variation of precipitation and runoff of Xiangtan, Taojiang, Taoyuan, Shimen, Shadaoguan, Mituosi, Ouchikou and Chenglingji five hydrological stations. Most of the large surface water areas were observed during the pre-TGR period, whereas the small surface water areas were observed during the post-TGR period. Surface water area data, precipitation and runoff from the four hydrological stations (except Shimen station) all indicated downward trends, with reduction rates of 5.866 km<sup>2</sup>·year<sup>−1</sup>, 0.802 mm·year<sup>−1</sup>, 3.950 10<sup>8</sup>m<sup>3</sup>·year<sup>−1</sup>, 2.834 10<sup>8</sup>m<sup>3</sup>·year<sup>−1</sup>, 0.377 10<sup>8</sup>m<sup>3</sup>·year<sup>−1</sup>, 1.282 10<sup>8</sup>m<sup>3</sup>·year<sup>−1</sup>, 2.715 10<sup>8</sup>m<sup>3</sup>·year<sup>−1</sup>, 0.318 10<sup>8</sup>m<sup>3</sup>·year</sup>−1</sup> and 16.114 10<sup>8</sup>m<sup>3</sup>·year<sup>−1</sup>, respectively. The results of correlation analyses indicated precipitation and water from the Yangtze river may affect the fluctuation in the surface water area to a large extent. The results of flood inundation probability analysis indicated that approximately 502.9 km 2 of the study area was in the high flood hazard zone. In addition, the results of this
study can provide scientific information to understand the effect of the TGR on downstream lakes and achieve better water resources and flood hazard management in this region.
